notes/project.md, before:

# Revised Proposal
- Revise Project Review Form (Max 8 pages)
    - Title of Project : Brief Overview (200 word max)
    - Project Description (One page max)
    - Project Plan (Two page max)
    - Adoption of Supervisor and Examiners feedback in session 1 report (Half page mix)

### Comments from previous submission

1. Abstract should come as a single paragraph
    - Summarise work and capture reader's attention with the most important details about methodology and findings
2. Overall good introduction
3. Good summary of research papers
    -  Identified the research gaps in the literature and present them clearly
4. Number the equations and refer in the text
5. Figures not clear enough, use high dip figures
6. Compare results with the state of the art and present the comparison will add more value to your outcome
7. Overall good research

# Contact Hours
- Innovation exhibition with poster presentation
- Thesis Seminars on Monday/ Tuesday Week 14
- Workload 24 hours a week

# Final Thesis Report
- Turn tin Check
- Zip file containing all materials

# Simulator

## Description
For each user to satisfy $-60$ dBm, the required received power (Watts) is:

$Pr = 1 * 10^{\frac{-60}{10}} = 1 * 10^{-9} W$

Transmit Power Required to service this user:

$$Pu = Pr * d^{\alpha}$$

If this transmit power is maintained for 5 minutes, energy consumption would be (Joules):

$$E_c = Pu * 60 * 5$$

$5.3$ Watt-hour of power is used when the access point is ON regardless of users being serviced. This would be $19080 J$ every hour and $1590 J$ every 5 minutes.

Energy harvesting is taken from a normal distribution of a certain mean and variance depending on weather condition. 

As an example, this would be $4.21 mW/cm^2$.
If the panel size is $5 cm^2$, the energy arrival will be:

$$4.21 * 5 = 21.05 mW$$

and also equal to $0.02105 W$ which is $0.02105 J/s$. Thus over the 5 minutes, total energy generation will be $6.315 J$

## TODO
- [ ] Basic plot without energy sharing
- [ ] Enable Energy Sharing

## Feature Plan
- [ ] Average Energy Consumption Model
    - [ ] Find out on average the energy consumption model and pick from a distribution
- [x] Transmission Policy
    - [x] Picking cheapest user and only transmitting once
    - [x] Picking cheapest users and transmitting until there is no more energy
- [o] Energy Sharing
    - [X] AP Efficiency Ranking
    - [X] AP Energy Use Ranking
    - [X] Even Energy Distribution
    - [ ] Energy Sharing Budget
        - [ ] Test with ratio
        - [ ] Test with load balancing
    - [ ] Collaboration of access points
        - [ ] Prioritising total of users serviced as a whole
        - [ ] Prioritising users connected to it
        - Borrowing scheme
    - [X] Geometric Series for ranking access points
        - [X] Test different ratio, r
    - [ ] Sanity Check for Energy Arrival and Sum at the End
- [X] Load Balancing 
- [ ] Reinforced learning
    - [ ] Multi-arm Bandit


# Energy Policy Comparisons

![Base Energy Consumption 1590J](./images/ec-highbasic.png)

Access points which do not use any energy consumption policy performs similarly to Access Points that try to service the cheapest users.

![Base Energy Consumption 1000J](./images/ec-lowbasic.png)

When Idle Energy Consumption is low, number of serviced users are affected more by the energy consumption policy.

An Access Point which is powered on has a more significant energy consumption. A energy consumption policy might be to let an Access Point determine when it will be able to service the most users and turn on.

# Load Balancing

The User will connect to the next closest Access Point if the closest one is not available.

If the energy sharing budget is the entirety of the stored energy, the total number of serviced users will be affected by load balancing. This aggressive energy distribution method ensures that the highest ranked access point has the highest amount of energy after each timeslot. As a consequence, the lowest ranked access point will possess the least amount of energy.

# Energy Allocation

Energy allocation is based on a geometric series with the ratio, r.

# Energy Sharing

When the number of users is low, no energy sharing resulted in the highest number of serviced users.

# Plots

## Planned Plots

1. Effect of Energy Sharing Budget Percentage
    - X: Percentage of Energy Shared
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest Users
2. Impact of Geometric Series Ratio for Energy Sharing
    - X: Geometric Series Ratio
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest Users
3. Impact of Lambda of Poisson Point Process User Placement
    - X: Lambda
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest User
        - Cheapest Users
4. Impact of Load Balancing
    - X: User Limit for each AP
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest User
        - Cheapest Users
5. Effect of Maximum User Movement Distance
    - X: User Movement Limit
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest User
        - Cheapest Users

TODO: Test Poisson Point Process for different Lambda Values

Commit message:

Added multiArmBandit.epsilonGreedy algorithm and multiprocessing simulator.

notes/project.md, after:

# Revised Proposal
- Revise Project Review Form (Max 8 pages)
    - Title of Project : Brief Overview (200 word max)
    - Project Description (One page max)
    - Project Plan (Two page max)
    - Adoption of Supervisor and Examiners feedback in session 1 report (Half page mix)

### Comments from previous submission

1. Abstract should come as a single paragraph
    - Summarise work and capture reader's attention with the most important details about methodology and findings
2. Overall good introduction
3. Good summary of research papers
    -  Identified the research gaps in the literature and present them clearly
4. Number the equations and refer in the text
5. Figures not clear enough, use high dip figures
6. Compare results with the state of the art and present the comparison will add more value to your outcome
7. Overall good research

# Contact Hours
- Innovation exhibition with poster presentation
- Thesis Seminars on Monday/ Tuesday Week 14
- Workload 24 hours a week

# Final Thesis Report
- Turn tin Check
- Zip file containing all materials

# Simulator

## Description
For each user to satisfy $-60$ dBm, the required received power (Watts) is:

$Pr = 1 * 10^{\frac{-60}{10}} = 1 * 10^{-9} W$

Transmit Power Required to service this user:

$$Pu = Pr * d^{\alpha}$$

If this transmit power is maintained for 5 minutes, energy consumption would be (Joules):

$$E_c = Pu * 60 * 5$$

$5.3$ Watt-hour of power is used when the access point is ON regardless of users being serviced. This would be $19080 J$ every hour and $1590 J$ every 5 minutes.

Energy harvesting is taken from a normal distribution of a certain mean and variance depending on weather condition. 

As an example, this would be $4.21 mW/cm^2$.
If the panel size is $5 cm^2$, the energy arrival will be:

$$4.21 * 5 = 21.05 mW$$

and also equal to $0.02105 W$ which is $0.02105 J/s$. Thus over the 5 minutes, total energy generation will be $6.315 J$

## TODO
- [ ] Basic plot without energy sharing
- [ ] Enable Energy Sharing

## Feature Plan
- [ ] Average Energy Consumption Model
    - [ ] Find out on average the energy consumption model and pick from a distribution
- [x] Transmission Policy
    - [x] Picking cheapest user and only transmitting once
    - [x] Picking cheapest users and transmitting until there is no more energy
- [o] Energy Sharing
    - [X] AP Efficiency Ranking
    - [X] AP Energy Use Ranking
    - [X] Even Energy Distribution
    - [ ] Energy Sharing Budget
        - [ ] Test with ratio
        - [ ] Test with load balancing
    - [ ] Collaboration of access points
        - [ ] Prioritising total of users serviced as a whole
        - [ ] Prioritising users connected to it
        - Borrowing scheme
    - [X] Geometric Series for ranking access points
        - [X] Test different ratio, r
    - [ ] Sanity Check for Energy Arrival and Sum at the End
- [X] Load Balancing 
- [ ] Reinforced learning
    - [ ] Multi-arm Bandit


# Energy Policy Comparisons

![Base Energy Consumption 1590J](./images/ec-highbasic.png)

Access points which do not use any energy consumption policy performs similarly to Access Points that try to service the cheapest users.

![Base Energy Consumption 1000J](./images/ec-lowbasic.png)

When Idle Energy Consumption is low, number of serviced users are affected more by the energy consumption policy.

An Access Point which is powered on has a more significant energy consumption. A energy consumption policy might be to let an Access Point determine when it will be able to service the most users and turn on.

# Load Balancing

The User will connect to the next closest Access Point if the closest one is not available.

If the energy sharing budget is the entirety of the stored energy, the total number of serviced users will be affected by load balancing. This aggressive energy distribution method ensures that the highest ranked access point has the highest amount of energy after each timeslot. As a consequence, the lowest ranked access point will possess the least amount of energy.

# Energy Allocation

Energy allocation is based on a geometric series with the ratio, r.

# Energy Sharing

When the number of users is low, no energy sharing resulted in the highest number of serviced users.

# Plots

## Planned Plots

1. Effect of Energy Sharing Budget Percentage
    - X: Percentage of Energy Shared
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest Users
2. Impact of Geometric Series Ratio for Energy Sharing
    - X: Geometric Series Ratio
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest Users
3. Impact of Lambda of Poisson Point Process User Placement
    - X: Lambda
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest User
        - Cheapest Users
4. Impact of Load Balancing
    - X: User Limit for each AP
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest User
        - Cheapest Users
5. Effect of Maximum User Movement Distance
    - X: User Movement Limit
    - Transmission Policies
        - No Transmission Policy
        - Cheapest User
        - Cheapest Users
6. Effect of Epsilon for Epsilon Greedy Multi Arm Bandit Algorithm
    - X: Epsilon

TODO: Test Poisson Point Process for different Lambda Values
